Tell me about you and your last project architectire and how deployment is done...


Java:
6.Difference between final,finally,finalize 

1.Can static objects be inherited?
	static can be shraed by child classes as long as it is not hidden by other static variables.

2.Explain the internal implementation of Hashmap. What happens if you do not override equal method?
 	if two objects are equal there hashcode also be same. if equal not overrided, two equal object may sit in the same bucket
		if not hashcode not overrided,two same obj produce diff hashcode and go into diff bucket

3.When you serialize an object what will be the output of the attribute with modifier transient?

4.Do you know about multithreading? what is the difference between callable and runnable interface?

5.what are solid principles of java?
	single reponsibility;open closed;liskov substitue;interface segregation;dependency inversion

Database:
1.Have u written stored procedure?what are the best practices?
	SQL keywords in caps;SET nocount on;while looop over cursor;no select *;move complex quey to views
2.Is it good to use temp tables? They compile everytime;use cache execution plan
3.How would you load the data from excel into sql?
4.why do we use index? when you writing a query what u keep in mind when using where statement
5.Customer with id,name;Order with id,custid,orderedItem;Sales with id,amount;order id
	now i want list of records customerNames name xyz whose order amount is 1000


jump,impulse,   

Java8:
Whare are lambda expressions?
explain optional class?difference between optional and optinalof
can you call static method using method reference? classname::methodname is syntax
	collection.sort(prsonLIst,classname::comparebyName)


Hibernate:
explain ORM,, one to many,, what is the use of mapped by?
first and second level cache in hibernate

Struts:
which version have you used?
interceptors
life cycle of servlet; loaded, isntantiated, intitialized,request,destroyed
load-on startup in servlet?


Springboot:
@SpringBootapplication,what happens when you start applicaiton
can we replace @Servcie by @component 	 
Exception handling in springboot
I want to develop a user form in spring boot to collect feedback of the interview,, can you design it in spirngboot
@Transaction works;required ,support, mandatory, never, not suuported,nested;;;required is default propogation
Have you worked on spring aop module

mvc:
how do you connect two databases;
what happens when i hit a url in spring,, dispatcher sevlet,, coller,, mvc,, view
what are @pathvariables

Javascript:
isNaN fucntion;not a number returns boolean
difference between var and let.. var can be defined through out the program
alert confirn promt are pop up opitons
difference between call and apply


Testing:
what are tools you used;
how you mock db connection
how do you checking test coverage,,any tools

Jenkins,Docker,Kubernetes,Cloud experience

security:
how to secure your applciation
what is login mechanixsma.. ie authentication and authorization



